if you're new to the channel don't worry
you don't look at my face for very long
or about to go straight to the primary
source tape if you're a fan of Jordan
Peterson you might be shocked at the
title of this video thinking that you
just recently saw him discussing his
diet in terms of meat and greens but
this development which is here explained
to us by his daughter has apparently
only come about in the last couple of
months they decided to eliminate the
greens and commit themselves to a 100%
meat diet this is unsurprising I should
say it's unsurprising that this has only
been going on for last couple of months
it's very surprising to hear that anyone
would be so foolhardy as to commit to a
diet that is based on a ribeye steak a
foodstuff that is 73 percent fat at the
best of times if you manage to get a
butcher to cut it as long as possible
for you um it's unsurprising that this
only been gone for a few months in the
family Peterson just in that the
calamitous health consequences of the
decisions they made have evidently not
caught up with them yet in any case
we'll cut at the tape here is Michaela
Peterson explain to you how the family
struggle with antidepressants has led
them now to embrace a 100% mean tie a
bonus Yin so so what I'm not up to date
in this I'm actually only eating meat
yeah that's kind of the face I was
expecting and when you say only eating
meat I mean water sparkling waters salt
okay yes Italy its salt yeah um I mean
'if i was eating chicken before i'm not
anymore
and fish no no fish just beef I think
beef makes me feel the best okay I know
how strange it sounds but it's working
there's there's a lot of good stuff in
beef so if if you know between me and
you if I were to to try this meat only
solidly for a month
you two insane benefits insane bit and I
can like there's a website called meet
heels calm okay
and there are anecdotal reports of
people going on the carnivore diet
carnivore zero carb diet and there are
crazy stories on there and there's
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
reports and there and normally I
wouldn't believe something like that
because it's so strange but I've
experienced it and my dad has
experienced it like his anxiety is gone
and I couldn't get it under control with
just eliminating while my elimination
diet which was very strict yeah and he
never cheated right and he's not he's
not exercising like it's not something
else it's not like some stressor in his
life just lifted it's the diet mood-wise
does that make you almost not anti
Pharma but question that whole business
of antidepressants no I know the
antidepressants first of all if you tell
anyone that their depression is gonna
what go away if they only eat meat
they're just that's the end of the
conversation right no one is gonna dude
he's just gonna get laughed out of the
room let's like take the most ridiculous
diet you can and say that's how to get
rid of your depression it's really
unfortunate because it really works for
me it works for my dad works for my
husband he's doing it okay I had severe
depression okay
there's thousands of people there
anecdotal obviously but it's working for
them but it's ridiculous sounding so am
i anti Pharma like no because
antidepressants helped me I am a little
pissed off that when you go to medical
school they don't teach you anything
about nutrition or they tell you you
know eat your whole grains I Makayla's
blog it's like the food pyramids a lie
yeah our kids still taught that food
pyramid of hands at the bottom yeah yeah
a few weeks ago i posted a video of
jordan peterson in 2011 in which he
talked about how he takes several
antidepressants I take serotonin
reuptake inhibitor which is SSRI yes
it's like Prozac I don't take Prozac but
it's similar to that and I also take a
drug called wellbutrin
doing that to you is actually a good
thing because what's happening is your
serotonin levels are going up and yours
when your serotonin levels go up I mean
it's ironic when you think about it
isn't that a drug that's marketed as an
antidepressant has a side effect of
suicide to take the irony further now
the FDA's new label warnings and the
Canadian we'd like my books with ten
years ago that these drugs produce
anxiety insomnia over stimulation
impulsivity aggressivity hostility and
Oh general worsening of their condition
fifteen years ago I warned the FDA and I
warned the country and toxic psychiatry
that antidepressants were causing a
stimulant amphetamine like syndrome that
was resulting in violence and murder in
1994 and talking back to prozac I warned
the country and the FDA again this time
with tons now scientific data on the
same issues during that period of time I
was asked to be and this is very
relevant to deliberations the scientific
investigator for all of the combined
Prozac suits almost 200 of them so I got
to look at all the sealed data that Eli
Lilly Lilly didn't want anybody else to
see so about twenty books later now and
a few dozen scientific studies and
innumerable innumerable product
liability suits where I've looked at
sealed data I've come to tell you that
you're evaluating junk you're evaluating
carefully edited expurgated data that
I've seen and you haven't the whole idea
behind prozac was that it would block
the removal of serotonin from those
active places in your brain called the
synapses and that's supposed to mean
you're going to puddle serotonin you're
going to increase serotonin in the
synapse
well in fact and Lilly knew this knew
this before the drug was approved the
brain doesn't like to have the serotonin
puddling in its synapses and the brain
responds by stopping producing serotonin
it responds by increasing its ability to
remove serotonin it responds by becoming
less sensitive to serotonin doing that
to you is actually a good thing because
what's happening is your serotonin
levels are going up and yours when your
serotonin levels go up then your
musculature can relax you know don't
tensed up and ready for the worst and
being like that for like ten years is no
joke and so I thought well when I took
the serotonin reuptake inhibitor and I
thought I will never stop taking this
ever and you have not no no no several
people had the need to say that he had
quit taking antidepressants but the
reason why I knew that is not true is
because they all mentioned this other
video called digesting depression in
which he does not say he quit
antidepressants but rather that he had
been increasing his dosage throughout
the years to the point that he started
getting really bad side effects and he
cut the dosage in half probably going
back to some earlier dose I stopped
eating pork in high school because I
felt bad about the pigs pigs yeah so I
stopped eating pork in high school okay
so strictly beef now please check out
michaelis instagram great stories if
you're looking for some sweet beef
recipes but so on a breakfast or do you
do three meals a day eat three meals a
day okay so I'm looking at your
Instagram and you're cooking up a steak
for breakfast so what what does your
what what kind of does your daily intake
of meat look like so i ribeye is what
I'd like generally like the best which
I'm pretty sure most people like the
best mm-hm so and it's really fast in
the morning so I'll fry one of those in
the morning and then I could just eat
ribeye all the time but it's expensive
so we have ribs hamburger roasts and
I make jerky on Saturday so that I have
like something easy to grab right all
the time yeah so no I'm not
Angi Pharma because well hell if I
hadn't been on all that medication
keeping me you know half alive I
wouldn't have been able to come to the
conclusion that diet would help like the
outer all was a godsend for keeping me
awake that being said if I you know if
diet had been made me more looked into
originally I wouldn't have to had to go
on a medication right but no I'm not
anti depressant anti anti depressants
and antidepressant they didn't help you
did help me a lot so awesome I had this
original elimination diet and it was
pretty much greens sweet potatoes apples
pears and meat and coconut oil like
apple cider vinegar it was very limited
but it was still like well very
well-rounded compared to just eating
meat and I was doing really well on that
and then I got pregnant
and something changed and it's stopped
working as well so I was still doing
better than I was pre diet but I wasn't
at that like my depression is gone like
it was and it took me almost a year to
figure out what was going on because
that diet has been working and then you
know step away from that for a bit so I
had put dad on this diet which was the
same you know sweet potatoes greens meat
that's about it mm-hmm and he lost a
whole bunch of weight lost like 50
pounds in the first year and he's been
trying to run a healthy okay pounds yeah
I have people being like that's not
healthy but yeah he's bad he's like out
of normal weight exactly but it was just
fast and it was I guess it was kind of
scary for us too because it was fast so
he lost a whole bunch of weight he stopt
napping he had some psoriasis that
cleared up and his I would say his
depression lessened but it didn't go
away and the anxiety didn't go away
fully okay for some reason it just
didn't go away fully for him it helped
but not like it helped my mood so anyway
we'll leave that be so then this diet
stopped working for me and I started
cutting out more
more and more things and I was eating
more and more meat because I knew I
don't know how I knew okay can't be
allergic to chicken I don't know yeah so
then in like frustration in December I
googled like allergic to everything
which is something I had googled
multiple times before and I came across
this lady who'd been diagnosed with Lyme
disease like 20 years ago and the only
thing she was eating was meat and she
could control her Lyme disease by only
eating meat and the reason I hadn't
tried that before was because I thought
it was gonna die of scurvy like in the
first month right so I just I didn't try
it but um I saw her that she had only
been eating meat for like 18 years and
she was fine yeah 18 years and then I
thought okay screw it like I'm not I
just got a taste of what not having
depression was like I'm not going back
into it right if I hadn't had the taste
like it would have been okay I guess but
like I knew what that was like so I
needed it anyway I so I stopped eating
everything other than meat December
December ok 2016 December no or sorry
2017 2017 December okay so this is
fairly fairly fresh okay it's one thing
to judge somebody on their hobbies on
their passing interests on casual
statements they may make on the Internet
discourse such as the kind you and I are
engaged in right now and it's another
thing to judge them on the basis of
their own area of expertise George and
Peterson's incompetence on all things
connected to antidepressants is shocking
given that this is supposedly his own
area of greatest expertise one of the
first things I ever heard of Jordan
Peterson's mouth was a statement from
him about communism the history of
communism something I have considerable
expertise in and I found it
appallingly ignorant fatuous
self-indulgent I mean if it were written
in a high school essay I might not find
fault with it but given the pretensions
he has the political leader
just seemed to me rather shoddy and
stupid his contribution on the topic um
and certainly LLL inform however I did
sort of set that aside I was aware well
this is me passing judgment on him when
he doesn't really have any claim to be
an expert in communism or anything to do
with politics at all really his area of
expertise should be precisely on these
matters that we see him running
roughshod over he should precisely be a
skeptical and well-informed person on
the bizarre history of marketing mixed
with pseudoscience that led millions of
people to believe that ss RR - pardon me
SSRI drugs antidepressants such as
prozac were addressing a chemical
imbalance in the brain - say that's been
debunked is an understatement
the whole intellectual history of the
claim has been published examined from
every angle within the branch of what's
now called critical psychiatry and to
see him clinging to these sort of
Mythology from the 1990s about these
drugs because of his personal emotional
connection to them shows just have
unreliable he is in all other provinces
frankly of politics and philosophy and
we see this here in the way in which he
allowed his own daughter to lead him
step by step through heavier and heavier
antidepressant use and then a struggle
to try to wean himself off of
antidepressants through an utterly
pseudo-scientific elimination diet that
finally ended up with him to my
knowledge at present attempting to eat a
100% carnivore meat-based diet his
appraisal of his understanding of
antidepressants is pseudo-scientific and
simply stupid to begin with his
understanding of human nutrition is
stupid for those of you who really look
up to this man philosophically or
politically i urge you
consider the very real possibility that
he has similarly flawed judgment when he
is working outside his own area of
expertise when he's speaking outside his
own area of credit right
[Music]
evolution